[Music]
Good morning and welcome everyone. This is one of the very
glorious and beautiful day of the Buddhist history.
Certainly is for us one of the great moment in our life. We are celebrating the
very special significance of the event that marks
one of the beautiful history in the Buddhist history
in this holy land of the Saranath or the way the Buddha forced to give
the will of dharma, or the turning the will of dharma.
[Music]
The nunnery is very important. We really thought that because
in the holy land, such it is a holy land, there is no
nunneries in history that we can read happened.
The first nunnery in Saranath in history after
the two thousand five hundred fiftyth Buddha's birthday.
There hasn't been a nunnery a year since the time of the Buddha.
They've at least documented that there was a community of female practitioners
here. So Rinpoche's have dedicated this to
to the continued learning, the teachings for the female communities
that they receive and hold the teachings and bring
bring them to maturity both in the practice meditation and study.
The three aspects, three pillars of Buddhism.
In the according to the Buddha's teaching, teaching the nunnery started
in the shavastha but nothing really mentioned in this holy land. There's a
lot of monasteries mentioned but nothing nunnery. So we thought if we can
start it some nunnery it will be really wonderful.
Asanda is the day of our opening nunnery.
Many of the peoples are coming to come into our openings.
Women's lineage into that Buddhism is really, really important.
Most of them I know, most realized, pictures will be doing practices of
female deities. It's just it's very integrated and very
important and that was the basis for wanting to
or aspiring to because we didn't know that it would be possible
but we aspire to bring women into the arena
and to carry the lineage forward.
Now we have about eight nuns.
My name is Sandy. I am from Nepal. I am 11 years old.
I am Bemur Weasel. I am from Nepal. I am 16 years old.
I am Thas Yangtian. I am 16 years old. I am from Sikkim.
I am Chiki. I am 20 years old. I am from Bhutan.
My name is Dronma Chiki. I am from Nepal. I am a pediatrician.
I am 20 and 20 years old. I am from Nepal. And they all generally they they own
interest. They become really nuns. My mission is to become a nun.
By being a nun I want to retreat a lot and I want to study more about
the philosophy and as well as the Tibetan grammars
because in Bhutan there is no Tibetan grammars and much
philosophies. And if we do a dharma or more dharma in this
life, in this life we will be a peace and it is
easy to be a happy life. I like a nun life.
I request to my mum I want to be a nun because of the dharma.
Buddha dharma is about your own path, your inner self
and they're reaching down to the depths of understanding
in early life about the world and they've chosen to be students of the
Buddha dharma, Buddha's teachings, Buddha's doctrines which are so inspiring and so
to just take it to a new place and make you whole.
Being a nun I want to help to all the giving beings as well as
to teach, to teach whatever I know to the other people.
There are so many great teachers in India, those Buddhist great
women teachers, both in Vinaya systems and as well as Mahayana
and Vajrayana, in particular Vajrayana there are so many women great teachers.
If I can do, I want to become the Ani Kimbo.
Yeah really excited, I'm very happy we are going to celebrate
and the day after tomorrow I think 12th Sunday
coming soon so everyone is so much excited and happy and also energetic
monks and nuns everyone is really working hard now
trying to prepare all these things this is our one of the beautiful nuns here
this is another one. I'm going to put all the prayer flags up so it's very festive
but also has the emblem of the horse with the energy horse
we call raising up the wind horse and it has all the prayers
for revitalizing and bringing all the energies together that's not representing
all the coloured energies. This is very powerful.
I like a one nun, her name is Lauren. I like very much because
she's very kind-hearted to us. Also she is helping
awarding wishes to build a new nunary. They worked all night last night to finish
do some of the finishing touches. We've got some palm trees coming this afternoon
and we're going to sort of be in the backdrop
of all these workers will have completed it so it looks a little more
comfortable. Things go, they're on pace, there are no great machinery,
bricks and everything is done by hand. I think there has been only one machine
here and it's a polishing machine otherwise everything has been done by
hand. It's just an extraordinary feat to do this. I think the building started a
year ago so we could say that it's 95% finished.
Wow, they're really doing so well. As a group together,
they're doing so well. This is the symbol of the Buddha teaching.
The Buddha teaching is called the Dharma Wheel and
it symbolizes all the Buddha's teachings like
the wheel, meditation and achievement. And then two deers symbolize the teaching
of the Buddha is non-volence and peace. This teaching is equal for all the
living beings to bring them peace and happiness.
They're equal, there's no difference between any living beings. We all have the
same Buddha nature and we all like the peace and harmony
and non-volence. So therefore even the deers and animals also
come to listen to such a peaceful teaching and so that's
what they symbolize. But they're using that reference books on how to bend
and but they're doing really well.
And we like to be really completed as much as we can before the 12th November
so it looks more clean and beautiful so that we can really
feel happy and joy and dedicate the merit.
For the world peace, for all the individualists, to everyone for the
good cause.
Tomorrow is then really full day with the spiritual
Dharma activities and we're really also going to dedicate
these merits for all the living beings, to all the supporting donors and then we
wish really to everyone those who are here and those who are
gone from our side and every best and every good things
happened and then reaching enlightenment in the Buddhahood.
That's what really we are praying and we are hoping and that's what we're trying
to symbolize by every hour event and activities.
Today we're celebrating
the opening of the first nunnery in Sarnath since the time of all Buddha.
There is no accounts of any nunneries at all.
We're talking about 2015, 50 years ago.
Look at this Buddha. Buddha is very arrived here.
[Music]
Good morning and welcome everyone. This is one of the very
glorious and beautiful day of the Buddhist history. Certainly is for us one
of the great moment in our life and do meditation practice, do
meditation activities. If you do that you will get equal
benefit as Buddha himself, living benefit. Because of those all reasons
many great devotees of the old from the high
to the beginning practitioners visited those holy supporters
and many of those praises and remembered and meditated and practiced
and bring more love and kindness and compare thought
in their mind and heart and spread it and share that nature
to the other beings and others and that's how
the Buddhism become the symbol of love and peace
of this universe and world. Again from the day one
that the Buddhist nun Ani Lorraine who put so much effort
to bring actualizing to bring this land and until now so we like
to thank you to to all the donors and all the supports
of everyone and then particularly him build him in the lead build him in
in the human foundations and then Ani Pema Saldun and Lorraine I'm so happy
and peaceful I like a non-life because of the Dharma
so I also meet a very kind and very kind hearted
Rimboches and Ani Lorraine they are helping so much and
also they are also they are very kind for us.
Also I understand like whenever you are going to
sponsor the candles like they're marking the years of the Buddhism
like in our birthday two thousand five hundred and fifty years
but this time we're not we're not going to blow up we're going to continue to
live and naturally let it go.
We like our nunari should be a very very big
and very famous. All that we are providing and that actually is not just
we are providing is all the like members of the Pema Saldun Buddhist
Center and proper really donated that.
We want a very big big sharing room also
library and library also we want many nuns
many nuns and we have a class of philosophy English or something.
Also we want internet or internet. In the minute where we have saying that
the eye medicine is always used for the eye
eye sounds that's why really we are doing that
so any support and any contributions that can
help for this purpose we really will use that
for the right directions and will propel their contribution
in the right way.
As the Buddha gave the first teaching
first teaching here and that teaching spread throughout the world
and throughout the generations and hopefully
as we start this this small nunaries continue to spread
the value and call it and teaching in the messages
of the Buddha by the God's great Pema Master's
continually and throughout the world and throughout the generations.
So that is really our wish and pray and as we said too
first time in Buddhagi the first teaching only five human students
only five and we have eight nuns now it couldn't exist
and maybe more is coming so so hopefully it will really continue
igniting like grass fire and then big continue running as a Mississippi River
or River Ganges ongoing unseasoning spreading
the really message of the teaching of the Buddha.
Well everybody's so happy and they're inspired now
that some new nuns are coming or the family is growing
and they have a great future here at Orgensheim.
You're trickling, are you trickery?
Thank you everyone for everybody's help it's just been beautiful.
You just feel very inspired and very blessed. Thank you.
[Music]
Thank you very much. Okay thank you.